---
title: Advice for Data Scientists on Where to Work
layout: post
author: Eric Colson, Brad Klingenberg, and Jeff Magnusson
author_url: 'http://technology.stitchfix.com/#team'
published: true
location: "San Francisco, CA"
---

It's a good time to be a data scientist. If you have the skills,
experience, curiosity and passion, there is a vast and receptive market
of companies to choose from. Yet there is much to consider when
evaluating a prospective firm as a place to apply your talents. Even
veterans may not have had the opportunity to experience different
organizations, stages of maturity, cultures, technologies, or domains.
We are amalgamating our combined experience here to offer some advice -
three things to look for in a company that could make it a great place
to work.


![Image of several data scientists](/assets/images/blog/three_data_scientists.jpg)

####  Work for a Company that Leverages Data Science for its Strategic Differentiation
Companies employ various means of differentiation in order to gain a
competitive advantage in the market. Some differentiate themselves using
price, striving to be the low-price leader. Others differentiate by
product, providing an offering that is superior in some way. Still
others differentiate by their processes - for example providing faster
shipping.

A Data Scientist should look for a company that actually uses data
science to set themselves apart from the competition. Note that data
science may be *supportive of* lower prices, better products, and faster
shipping, however, it is not typically the direct enabler of these
differentiators. More commonly, the enablers are other things -
economies of scale in the case of lower prices, patents or branding in
the case of product, and automation technology in the case of faster
shipping. Data science can directly enable a strategic differentiator if
the company's core competency depends on its data and analytic
capabilities. When this happens, the company becomes *supportive to*
data science instead of the other way around. It's willing to invest in
acquiring the top talent, building the necessary infrastructure,
pioneering the latest algorithmic and computational techniques, and
building incredible engineering products to manifest the data science.

"Good enough" is not a phrase that is uttered in the context of a
strategic differentiator. Rather, the company and the data scientist
have every incentive to push the envelope, to innovate further, and to
take more risks. The company's aspirations are squarely in-line with
that of the data scientist's. It's an amazing intersection to be at â€“ a
place that gets you excited to wake up to every morning, a place that
stretches you, a place that inspires you (and supports you) to be the
best in the world at what you do.

#### Work for a Company with Great Data
In determining what will be a great company to work for,
data-science-as-a-strategic-differentiator is a necessary criteria, but
it is not sufficient. The company must also have world-class data to
work with.

This starts with finding a company that really has data. Spotting the
difference between data and aspirations of data can be especially
important in evaluating early-stage companies. Ideally you'll find a
company that *already has* enough data to do interesting things. Almost
all companies will generate more data as they grow, but if you join a
company that already has data your potential for impact and fulfillment
will be much higher.

Next look for data that is both interesting and that has explanatory
power. One of the most important aspects of your daily life will be the
extent to which you find the data you work with compelling. Interesting
data should require your creativity to frame problems, test your
intuition and push you to develop new algorithms and applications.
Explanatory power is just as important - great data enables great
applications. There should be enough signal to support data science as a
differentiating strength.

Finally, don't fixate on big data. The rising prominence of the data
scientist has coincided with the rise of Big Data, but they are not the
same thing. Sheer scale does not necessarily make data interesting, nor
is it necessarily required. Look for data with high information density
rather than high volume, and that supports applications you find
interesting or surprising. This enables you to spend most of your mental
energy on analysis and framing rather than on efficient data processing.

#### Work for a Company with Greenfield Opportunities
When evaluating opportunities, find a company that doesn't have it all
figured out yet. Nearly all companies that fit the criteria in the
sections above will already have some applications in place where the
work of data scientists is essential. Look for those companies that have
a strong direction and strongly established data science teams, but have
an array of problems they are solving for the first time.

Often the most exciting and impactful opportunities for data scientists
at a company are not being actively pursued. They probably have not even
been conceived of yet. Work somewhere that encourages you to take risks,
challenge basic assumptions, and imagine new possibilities.

Observing the relationship between engineering and data science teams is
a quick way to determine if an organization adopts this mindset. Is
engineering enthusiastic to partner with data science teams to
experiment and integrate ideas back into the business? Is there an
architecture in place that supports agile integration of new ideas and
technologies? In fact, in companies that embody this mindset most
effectively, it is likely difficult to locate the boundary between data
science and engineering teams.

A greenfield can be intimidating in its lack of structure, but the
amount of creativity and freedom available to you as a data scientist is
never greater than when you're starting from scratch. The impact of
putting something in place where nothing existed previously can be
immeasurable. Look for chances to be involved in designing not just the
math and science, but also the pipeline, the API, and the tech stack.
Not only is creating something new often more challenging and rewarding,
but there is no better opportunity for learning and growth than
designing something from the ground up.

Incremental improvements have incremental impacts, but embrace the
chance to operate on a greenfield. While it is extremely important to
constantly iterate and improve on systems that already exist, the
Version 1 of something new can fundamentally change the business.

#### Summary
Of course, there are other considerations: domain, the company's brand,
the specific technology in use, the culture, the people, and so forth. All of
those are equally important. We call out the three above since they are
less frequently talked about, yet fundamental to a data scientist's
growth, impact, and happiness. They are also less obvious. We learned
these things from experience. At first glance, you would not expect to
find these things in a women's apparel company. However, our very
different business model places a huge emphasis on data science, enables
some of the richest data in the world, and creates space for a whole new
suite of innovative software.
